	By midday reports were pouring-in about the massive devastation in Northern Pakistan.
	Cities like Muzaffarabad, Rawalakot, Bagh and Balakot have been reduced to dust and debris. 
	In a few tragic moments, thousands of people were buried under a shower of stones, wood and concrete. 
	The buzz of human life was reduced to an airy silence. 
	Many mountains have sunk several meters thus impacting the topography of this area. 
	It was a whole generation that appeared to be lost in this worst affected area.
	It was a testing time for the nation but people faced the calamity with ineffable courage and pluck as thousands of people flocked to help their fellow citizens, who had been hit by the worst and most horrible earthquake.
	The day is a memento to remember those who lost their lives and loved ones, and also to pay gratitude to those individuals, organizations and governments who offered assistance for relief and reconstruction work in the affected areas.
	In the aftermath of the hurricane, over one million volunteers came to offer aid in the relief efforts.
	Many of those volunteers came to help rebuild the area and provide a number of services to those in need, including health care. 
	However, volunteer health practitioners who traveled from other states to help Katrina survivors found they were severely limited in their ability to provide proper health care services.
	Every state requires health practitioners to have proper state licensure to practice, which, in a disaster situation creates a barrier to those health practitioners.
	Over a year after Hurricane Sandy destroyed over 600,000 housing units in New Jersey and New York many families are still living with friends, family or in other temporary housing. 
	One of the major impediments to rebuilding houses has to do with insufficient funds from FEMA’s flood insurance. 
	Reports are coming out that people are receiving up to tens or even hundreds of thousands of dollars less from the federal flood insurance program than they are entitled to.
	According to the Associated Press, one of the central reasons for that peoples claims are being undervalued is that insurance adjustors are inexperienced, and are overly reliant on flawed computer models. 
	In one case John Lambert and Lee Ann Newland had to pay $11,000 dollars out of pocket for sales tax on building supplies because an insurance adjustor forgot to include taxes in his cost model.
	Many people see disasters as a golden opportunity to make a personal profit, and one way they can do that is to get hired as insurance adjustors to help with the massive amount of insurance claims that need to be processed.
	FEMA has given Sandy victims until April 2014 to submit proof of loss documents to their insurers, but many victims do not have the time or expertise to cut through the red tape. 
	And even the ones who do may have to choose between eating into their savings and stressing relations with the friends and family they are currently living with
	As is often the case in disasters, one of the biggest problems is the collection and sharing of quality data about the situation to all parties involved.
	According to ProPublica FEMA still uses flood maps from 1981 to assess the risk of some communities. 
	FEMA does not keep track of how many of its claims are disputed, nor do they release how many people are satisfied with their claims.
	This is yet another example of how open data could easily improve disaster response and recovery, and help those impacted by natural disasters.
	When the United States announced military operations to control the explosive growth of Ebola cases in Liberia, few questioned whether this response would be adequate to the urgent demands of the situation. 
	Is the United States military’s plan for Liberia capable of dealing with a health disaster of this magnitude?  And why should Americans care?
	A study published October 24, 2014 in The Lancet Infectious Diseases medical journal finds that the U.S. military response to the Ebola epidemic in Liberia, dubbed “Operation United Assistance”, which will cost some $750 million, send 3,000 U.S. military personnel to the West African nation, and provide up to 1700 beds for patients, is grossly inadequate to bring the epidemic under control in that nation. 
	The study focuses on Montserrado, the county in Liberia in which the capital, Monrovia, is located, and where the disease is prevalent.  
	Without expanded efforts, the scientists predict 90,122 deaths there by Dec 15, 2014.